Find will come back in this video we're looking at group by group by is going to be fantastic because
it's going to let us remove duplicates when we do joins.
It's going to let us make sure that we are grouping our data and getting all the data related to customers
that we are interested in.
So he always gonna work.
We're going to do a join and then we're going to get a bunch of duplicate data and then we're going
to group.
And then the because is going to get removed.
But naturally we're going to lose some of that granularity.
So let's look at an example so you can understand what I'm going on about.
Let's say we've got select staff from customers and you know this gives us our customers.
And then I'm going to do the left join on purchases on customers dot ID equals purchases to our customer
on the score ID.
And you know what that is going to do going to give me all my customers and that is going to join the
purchase data onto them.
But I'm still going to get customers that have no data on purchases.
So what I get is Rolf's Smith twice Michael Adam three times Chris caught twice and then Jose and then
with no purchase date.
So what's going on here is that Smith has two purchases associated with him.
So what I get is the purchase data for for both purchases.
But naturally I have to get that into rows because that's two separate purchases.
But let's say that I'm not interested in the purchase info that the data stored here in these columns
.
I just want to know how many purchases is done which is too big for me to have two purchases.
That means I don't really need two rows for Rocksmith because I'm no longer interested in separate data
for each purchase.
I'm only interested in how many in total he made.
So what I can do is say select I'm going to select is customers not first on this morning.
Customers thought last underscore name and purchases dot I.D. and that's the first thing I'm going to
do the first change.
And if I press play I get now no longer the item ID and customer ID that I wasn't really interested
in from the purchase.
Now you're looking at the purchase I.D. It's still there twice however.
But this is an important first step and you'll see why in a moment.
So we've got the I.D. there 2 3 5 and 6 and so what I can then do is put a function here around purchases
dot I.D. which is count.
And what that does is it counts the total number of purchases dot ID that I've got there.
Now here's what happens when a Pressplay era.
And what does that is call them customers not first name must appear in a group by clause or be used
in an aggregate function.
What it's saying is that I'm an idiot because purchases dot ID if I count purchases or I.D. I'm going
to get 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 and it's telling me that that's probably not what you want to do.
And they are right.
That's not what I want to do.
What I want to do is when I count the grouped amount of purchases and I can do that by seeing group
by customers dot ID.
That is because somebody is not here.
But if it was Rowlf would be 1 1 and so on and so what's going to happen now is that I'm going to group
by customer I.D. which is going to give me only one customer.
And now I can count how many purchases are associated with that customer.
And naturally I have to retype this.
And there we go.
So now Craig Scott has two purchases.
Michael has three.
Ralph Smith has two.
And then these two have ZERO him which is now adding a lot more value to what we can do with a sequel
because now we were able to get sanitized and transformed information from sequel.
It's no longer just data.
Now it's turning into information.
Now this is things that we can action a business on.
We can say OK this guy has two two pages is we can send him a promotion now you know things like that
.
OK.
So this is the group by.
And similarly if we were to just do select staff from customers and group by customers not ID.
And this gives me just the normal customer data even though it's grouped because that's what the customer
table holds just a customer data.
But if we join it with something else then the grouping starts to make sense because we reduce the data
and we only get one row for each customer ID.
So that's what the group buying does
the next week.
I wanted to show you is one that uses the function some.
We're going to calculate here is how much money our customer has spent in our business.
So I'm going to select store select staff from items and this gives me just my items.
And notice how each item has a price which is a number which means I can add these prices together and
I'm going to do in the end join on purchases on items start ID equals purchases don't item ID and you
know what this it's going to do.
This is going to once again give me those items that have purchased Atascocita with them.
So the pain is going to disappear.
But now I might get some duplicates which is fine
and then I'm going to do an inner join customers on purchases dot customer id equal customers or ID
and you know what this is going to do once again we looked at this in the last video which is now going
to give me customer information for each of these orders.
So when I have Rocksmith and biner screen for $275 and now comes the more interesting part I want to
make sure that I only get one row per customer group by customers not ID.
If I if I do this what happens is that I can select everything because everything is no longer accessible
because weve grouped things when we group by customer id these two rows here become one.
So naturally we are losing they from these rows.
Were losing this data here because if we merge those two together what happens to this data well it
disappears.
But we can still access the grouped data if we want which means we can access a count of item names
for example that would be true we could access a count of item IDs for example that would be 2 or we
could access a sum of item prices and that would be something around 300 and something.
So lets do a group by customers to ID and now in the select instant of stock we can do.
Customers dont first name customers dot last name and now we cannot select anything that has not been
duped.
For example if I do items don't name I'll get an error because I don't have access to items not a name
because it's being grouped been reduced.
So that is no longer in the table.
I could do count of items not name and that would give me the number of orders essentially that they've
done but I could also do with some.
And that adds things together of items not price.
And that gives me the total amount that they have spent in the business which is a handy number to have
them which is fantastic.
Similarly a challenge for you could be to find out how much money in total has to be spent on your business
and buy all your customers and you could do this by selecting from purchases joining on items grouping
by an item id and then summing all the item prices together I think.
Anyway that's up to you to find out.
And we're going to look at how we could do that in the next video.
So try not to give it a go have a play around with it.
I'll be seeing you soon for some more sequel advanced stuff.
So actually